docs/docs/features/ml-hardware-acceleration.md, before:

# Hardware-Accelerated Machine Learning

This feature allows you to use a GPU to accelerate machine learning tasks, such as Smart Search and Facial Recognition, while reducing CPU load.
As this is a new feature, it is still experimental and may not work on all systems.

:::info
You do not need to redo any machine learning jobs after enabling hardware acceleration. The acceleration device will be used for any jobs that run after enabling it.
:::

## Supported Backends

- ARM NN (Mali)
- CUDA (NVIDIA GPUs with [compute capability](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-gpus) 5.2 or higher)
- OpenVINO (Intel GPUs such as Iris Xe and Arc)
- RKNN (Rockchip)

## Limitations

- The instructions and configurations here are specific to Docker Compose. Other container engines may require different configuration.
- Only Linux and Windows (through WSL2) servers are supported.
- ARM NN is only supported on devices with Mali GPUs. Other Arm devices are not supported.
- Some models may not be compatible with certain backends. CUDA is the most reliable.
- Search latency isn't improved by ARM NN due to model compatibility issues preventing its use. However, smart search jobs do make use of ARM NN.

## Prerequisites

#### ARM NN

- Make sure you have the appropriate linux kernel driver installed
  - This is usually pre-installed on the device vendor's Linux images
- `/dev/mali0` must be available in the host server
  - You may confirm this by running `ls /dev` to check that it exists
- You must have the closed-source `libmali.so` firmware (possibly with an additional firmware file)
  - Where and how you can get this file depends on device and vendor, but typically, the device vendor also supplies these
  - The `hwaccel.ml.yml` file assumes the path to it is `/usr/lib/libmali.so`, so update accordingly if it is elsewhere
  - The `hwaccel.ml.yml` file assumes an additional file `/lib/firmware/mali_csffw.bin`, so update accordingly if your device's driver does not require this file
- Optional: Configure your `.env` file, see [environment variables](/docs/install/environment-variables) for ARM NN specific settings
  - In particular, the `MACHINE_LEARNING_ANN_FP16_TURBO` can significantly improve performance at the cost of very slightly lower accuracy

#### CUDA

- The GPU must have compute capability 5.2 or greater.
- The server must have the official NVIDIA driver installed.
- The installed driver must be >= 535 (it must support CUDA 12.2).
- On Linux (except for WSL2), you also need to have [NVIDIA Container Toolkit][nvct] installed.

#### OpenVINO

- Integrated GPUs are more likely to experience issues than discrete GPUs, especially for older processors or servers with low RAM.
- Ensure the server's kernel version is new enough to use the device for hardware accceleration.
- Expect higher RAM usage when using OpenVINO compared to CPU processing.

#### RKNN

- You must have a supported Rockchip SoC: only RK3566, RK3568, RK3576 and RK3588 are supported at this moment.
- Make sure you have the appropriate linux kernel driver installed
  - This is usually pre-installed on the device vendor's Linux images
- RKNPU driver V0.9.8 or later must be available in the host server
  - You may confirm this by running `cat /sys/kernel/debug/rknpu/version` to check the version
- Optional: Configure your `.env` file, see [environment variables](/docs/install/environment-variables) for RKNN specific settings
  - In particular, setting `MACHINE_LEARNING_RKNN_THREADS` to 2 or 3 can _dramatically_ improve performance for RK3576 and RK3588 compared to the default of 1, at the expense of multiplying the amount of RAM each model uses by that amount.

## Setup

1. If you do not already have it, download the latest [`hwaccel.ml.yml`][hw-file] file and ensure it's in the same folder as the `docker-compose.yml`.
2. In the `docker-compose.yml` under `immich-machine-learning`, uncomment the `extends` section and change `cpu` to the appropriate backend.
3. Still in `immich-machine-learning`, add one of -[armnn, cuda, openvino] to the `image` section's tag at the end of the line.
4. Redeploy the `immich-machine-learning` container with these updated settings.

### Confirming Device Usage

You can confirm the device is being recognized and used by checking its utilization. There are many tools to display this, such as `nvtop` for NVIDIA or Intel and `intel_gpu_top` for Intel.

You can also check the logs of the `immich-machine-learning` container. When a Smart Search or Face Detection job begins, or when you search with text in Immich, you should either see a log for `Available ORT providers` containing the relevant provider (e.g. `CUDAExecutionProvider` in the case of CUDA), or a `Loaded ANN model` log entry without errors in the case of ARM NN.

#### Single Compose File

Some platforms, including Unraid and Portainer, do not support multiple Compose files as of writing. As an alternative, you can "inline" the relevant contents of the [`hwaccel.ml.yml`][hw-file] file into the `immich-machine-learning` service directly.

For example, the `cuda` section in this file is:

```yaml
deploy:
  resources:
    reservations:
      devices:
        - driver: nvidia
          count: 1
          capabilities:
            - gpu
```

You can add this to the `immich-machine-learning` service instead of extending from `hwaccel.ml.yml`:

```yaml
immich-machine-learning:
  container_name: immich_machine_learning
  # Note the `-cuda` at the end
  image: ghcr.io/immich-app/immich-machine-learning:${IMMICH_VERSION:-release}-cuda
  # Note the lack of an `extends` section
  deploy:
    resources:
      reservations:
        devices:
          - driver: nvidia
            count: 1
            capabilities:
              - gpu
  volumes:
    - model-cache:/cache
  env_file:
    - .env
  restart: always
```

Once this is done, you can redeploy the `immich-machine-learning` container.

#### Multi-GPU

If you want to utilize multiple NVIDIA or Intel GPUs, you can set the `MACHINE_LEARNING_DEVICE_IDS` environmental variable to a comma-separated list of device IDs and set `MACHINE_LEARNING_WORKERS` to the number of listed devices. You can run a command such as `nvidia-smi -L` or `glxinfo -B` to see the currently available devices and their corresponding IDs.

For example, if you have devices 0 and 1, set the values as follows:

```
MACHINE_LEARNING_DEVICE_IDS=0,1
MACHINE_LEARNING_WORKERS=2
```

In this example, the machine learning service will spawn two workers, one of which will allocate models to device 0 and the other to device 1. Different requests will be processed by one worker or the other.

This approach can be used to simply specify a particular device as well. For example, setting `MACHINE_LEARNING_DEVICE_IDS=1` will ensure device 1 is always used instead of device 0.

Note that you should increase job concurrencies to increase overall utilization and more effectively distribute work across multiple GPUs. Additionally, each GPU must be able to load all models. It is not possible to distribute a single model to multiple GPUs that individually have insufficient VRAM, or to delegate a specific model to one GPU.

[hw-file]: https://github.com/immich-app/immich/releases/latest/download/hwaccel.ml.yml
[nvct]: https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/latest/install-guide.html

## Tips

- If you encounter an error when a model is running, try a different model to see if the issue is model-specific.
- You may want to increase concurrency past the default for higher utilization. However, keep in mind that this will also increase VRAM consumption.
- Larger models benefit more from hardware acceleration, if you have the VRAM for them.
- Compared to ARM NN, RKNPU has:
  - Wider model support (including for search, which ARM NN does not accelerate)
  - Less heat generation
  - Very slightly lower accuracy (RKNPU always uses FP16, while ARM NN by default uses higher precision FP32 unless `MACHINE_LEARNING_ANN_FP16_TURBO` is enabled)
  - Varying speed (tested on RK3588):
    - If `MACHINE_LEARNING_RKNN_THREADS` is at the default of 1, RKNPU will have substantially lower throughput for ML jobs than ARM NN in most cases, but similar latency (such as when searching)
    - If `MACHINE_LEARNING_RKNN_THREADS` is set to 3, it will be somewhat faster than ARM NN at FP32, but somewhat slower than ARM NN if `MACHINE_LEARNING_ANN_FP16_TURBO` is enabled
    - When other tasks also use the GPU (like transcoding), RKNPU has a significant advantage over ARM NN as it uses the otherwise idle NPU instead of competing for GPU usage
  - Lower RAM usage if `MACHINE_LEARNING_RKNN_THREADS` is at the default of 1, but significantly higher if greater than 1 (which is necessary for it to fully utilize the NPU and hence be comparable in speed to ARM NN)

Commit message:

feat(ml): rocm (#16613)
* feat(ml): introduce support of onnxruntime-rocm for AMD GPU

* try mutex for algo cache

use OrtMutex

* bump versions, run on mich

use 3.12

use 1.19.2

* acquire lock before any changes can be made

guard algo benchmark results

mark mutex as mutable

re-add /bin/sh (?)

use 3.10

use 6.1.2

* use composite cache key

1.19.2

fix variable name

fix variable reference

aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa

* bump deps

* disable algo caching

* fix gha

* try ubuntu runner

* actually fix the gha

* update patch

* skip mimalloc preload for rocm

* increase build threads

* increase timeout for rocm

* Revert "increase timeout for rocm"

This reverts commit 2c4452f5d132198ed381a7b262b4a5cab5114b5f.

* attempt migraphx

* set migraphx_home

* Revert "set migraphx_home"

This reverts commit c121d3e48754b3bce100636f8d666deec58a44b7.

* Revert "attempt migraphx"

This reverts commit 521f9fb72dbe506dc6cb8faeb6494817d87265c6.

* migraphx, take two

* bump rocm

* allow cpu

* try only targeting migraphx

* skip tests

* migraph ❌

* known issues

* target gfx900 and gfx1102

* mention `HSA_USE_SVM`

* update lock

* set device id for rocm

---------

Co-authored-by: Mehdi GHESH <mehdi.ghesh@hotmail.fr>

docs/docs/features/ml-hardware-acceleration.md, after:

# Hardware-Accelerated Machine Learning

This feature allows you to use a GPU to accelerate machine learning tasks, such as Smart Search and Facial Recognition, while reducing CPU load.
As this is a new feature, it is still experimental and may not work on all systems.

:::info
You do not need to redo any machine learning jobs after enabling hardware acceleration. The acceleration device will be used for any jobs that run after enabling it.
:::

## Supported Backends

- ARM NN (Mali)
- CUDA (NVIDIA GPUs with [compute capability](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-gpus) 5.2 or higher)
- ROCm (AMD GPUs)
- OpenVINO (Intel GPUs such as Iris Xe and Arc)
- RKNN (Rockchip)

## Limitations

- The instructions and configurations here are specific to Docker Compose. Other container engines may require different configuration.
- Only Linux and Windows (through WSL2) servers are supported.
- ARM NN is only supported on devices with Mali GPUs. Other Arm devices are not supported.
- Some models may not be compatible with certain backends. CUDA is the most reliable.
- Search latency isn't improved by ARM NN due to model compatibility issues preventing its use. However, smart search jobs do make use of ARM NN.

## Prerequisites

#### ARM NN

- Make sure you have the appropriate linux kernel driver installed
  - This is usually pre-installed on the device vendor's Linux images
- `/dev/mali0` must be available in the host server
  - You may confirm this by running `ls /dev` to check that it exists
- You must have the closed-source `libmali.so` firmware (possibly with an additional firmware file)
  - Where and how you can get this file depends on device and vendor, but typically, the device vendor also supplies these
  - The `hwaccel.ml.yml` file assumes the path to it is `/usr/lib/libmali.so`, so update accordingly if it is elsewhere
  - The `hwaccel.ml.yml` file assumes an additional file `/lib/firmware/mali_csffw.bin`, so update accordingly if your device's driver does not require this file
- Optional: Configure your `.env` file, see [environment variables](/docs/install/environment-variables) for ARM NN specific settings
  - In particular, the `MACHINE_LEARNING_ANN_FP16_TURBO` can significantly improve performance at the cost of very slightly lower accuracy

#### CUDA

- The GPU must have compute capability 5.2 or greater.
- The server must have the official NVIDIA driver installed.
- The installed driver must be >= 535 (it must support CUDA 12.2).
- On Linux (except for WSL2), you also need to have [NVIDIA Container Toolkit][nvct] installed.

#### ROCm

- The GPU must be supported by ROCm. If it isn't officially supported, you can attempt to use the `HSA_OVERRIDE_GFX_VERSION` environmental variable: `HSA_OVERRIDE_GFX_VERSION=<a supported version, e.g. 10.3.0>`. If this doesn't work, you might need to also set `HSA_USE_SVM=0`.
- The ROCm image is quite large and requires at least 35GiB of free disk space. However, pulling later updates to the service through Docker will generally only amount to a few hundred megabytes as the rest will be cached.
- This backend is new and may experience some issues. For example, GPU power consumption can be higher than usual after running inference, even if the machine learning service is idle. In this case, it will only go back to normal after being idle for 5 minutes (configurable with the [MACHINE_LEARNING_MODEL_TTL](/docs/install/environment-variables) setting).

#### OpenVINO

- Integrated GPUs are more likely to experience issues than discrete GPUs, especially for older processors or servers with low RAM.
- Ensure the server's kernel version is new enough to use the device for hardware accceleration.
- Expect higher RAM usage when using OpenVINO compared to CPU processing.

#### RKNN

- You must have a supported Rockchip SoC: only RK3566, RK3568, RK3576 and RK3588 are supported at this moment.
- Make sure you have the appropriate linux kernel driver installed
  - This is usually pre-installed on the device vendor's Linux images
- RKNPU driver V0.9.8 or later must be available in the host server
  - You may confirm this by running `cat /sys/kernel/debug/rknpu/version` to check the version
- Optional: Configure your `.env` file, see [environment variables](/docs/install/environment-variables) for RKNN specific settings
  - In particular, setting `MACHINE_LEARNING_RKNN_THREADS` to 2 or 3 can _dramatically_ improve performance for RK3576 and RK3588 compared to the default of 1, at the expense of multiplying the amount of RAM each model uses by that amount.

## Setup

1. If you do not already have it, download the latest [`hwaccel.ml.yml`][hw-file] file and ensure it's in the same folder as the `docker-compose.yml`.
2. In the `docker-compose.yml` under `immich-machine-learning`, uncomment the `extends` section and change `cpu` to the appropriate backend.
3. Still in `immich-machine-learning`, add one of -[armnn, cuda, rocm, openvino] to the `image` section's tag at the end of the line.
4. Redeploy the `immich-machine-learning` container with these updated settings.

### Confirming Device Usage

You can confirm the device is being recognized and used by checking its utilization. There are many tools to display this, such as `nvtop` for NVIDIA or Intel, `intel_gpu_top` for Intel, and `radeontop` for AMD.

You can also check the logs of the `immich-machine-learning` container. When a Smart Search or Face Detection job begins, or when you search with text in Immich, you should either see a log for `Available ORT providers` containing the relevant provider (e.g. `CUDAExecutionProvider` in the case of CUDA), or a `Loaded ANN model` log entry without errors in the case of ARM NN.

#### Single Compose File

Some platforms, including Unraid and Portainer, do not support multiple Compose files as of writing. As an alternative, you can "inline" the relevant contents of the [`hwaccel.ml.yml`][hw-file] file into the `immich-machine-learning` service directly.

For example, the `cuda` section in this file is:

```yaml
deploy:
  resources:
    reservations:
      devices:
        - driver: nvidia
          count: 1
          capabilities:
            - gpu
```

You can add this to the `immich-machine-learning` service instead of extending from `hwaccel.ml.yml`:

```yaml
immich-machine-learning:
  container_name: immich_machine_learning
  # Note the `-cuda` at the end
  image: ghcr.io/immich-app/immich-machine-learning:${IMMICH_VERSION:-release}-cuda
  # Note the lack of an `extends` section
  deploy:
    resources:
      reservations:
        devices:
          - driver: nvidia
            count: 1
            capabilities:
              - gpu
  volumes:
    - model-cache:/cache
  env_file:
    - .env
  restart: always
```

Once this is done, you can redeploy the `immich-machine-learning` container.

#### Multi-GPU

If you want to utilize multiple NVIDIA or Intel GPUs, you can set the `MACHINE_LEARNING_DEVICE_IDS` environmental variable to a comma-separated list of device IDs and set `MACHINE_LEARNING_WORKERS` to the number of listed devices. You can run a command such as `nvidia-smi -L` or `glxinfo -B` to see the currently available devices and their corresponding IDs.

For example, if you have devices 0 and 1, set the values as follows:

```
MACHINE_LEARNING_DEVICE_IDS=0,1
MACHINE_LEARNING_WORKERS=2
```

In this example, the machine learning service will spawn two workers, one of which will allocate models to device 0 and the other to device 1. Different requests will be processed by one worker or the other.

This approach can be used to simply specify a particular device as well. For example, setting `MACHINE_LEARNING_DEVICE_IDS=1` will ensure device 1 is always used instead of device 0.

Note that you should increase job concurrencies to increase overall utilization and more effectively distribute work across multiple GPUs. Additionally, each GPU must be able to load all models. It is not possible to distribute a single model to multiple GPUs that individually have insufficient VRAM, or to delegate a specific model to one GPU.

[hw-file]: https://github.com/immich-app/immich/releases/latest/download/hwaccel.ml.yml
[nvct]: https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/latest/install-guide.html

## Tips

- If you encounter an error when a model is running, try a different model to see if the issue is model-specific.
- You may want to increase concurrency past the default for higher utilization. However, keep in mind that this will also increase VRAM consumption.
- Larger models benefit more from hardware acceleration, if you have the VRAM for them.
- Compared to ARM NN, RKNPU has:
  - Wider model support (including for search, which ARM NN does not accelerate)
  - Less heat generation
  - Very slightly lower accuracy (RKNPU always uses FP16, while ARM NN by default uses higher precision FP32 unless `MACHINE_LEARNING_ANN_FP16_TURBO` is enabled)
  - Varying speed (tested on RK3588):
    - If `MACHINE_LEARNING_RKNN_THREADS` is at the default of 1, RKNPU will have substantially lower throughput for ML jobs than ARM NN in most cases, but similar latency (such as when searching)
    - If `MACHINE_LEARNING_RKNN_THREADS` is set to 3, it will be somewhat faster than ARM NN at FP32, but somewhat slower than ARM NN if `MACHINE_LEARNING_ANN_FP16_TURBO` is enabled
    - When other tasks also use the GPU (like transcoding), RKNPU has a significant advantage over ARM NN as it uses the otherwise idle NPU instead of competing for GPU usage
  - Lower RAM usage if `MACHINE_LEARNING_RKNN_THREADS` is at the default of 1, but significantly higher if greater than 1 (which is necessary for it to fully utilize the NPU and hence be comparable in speed to ARM NN)
