docs/docs/guides/custom-locations.md, before:

# Files Custom Locations

This guide explains how to store generated and raw files with docker's volume mount in different locations.

:::caution Backup
It is important to remember to update the backup settings after following the guide to back up the new backup paths if using automatic backup tools, especially `profile/`.
:::

In our `.env` file, we will define the paths we want to use. Note that you don't have to define all of these: UPLOAD_LOCATION will be the base folder that files are stored in by default, with the other paths acting as overrides.

```diff title=".env"
# You can find documentation for all the supported environment variables [here](/docs/install/environment-variables)

# Custom location where your uploaded, thumbnails, and transcoded video files are stored
- UPLOAD_LOCATION=./library
+ UPLOAD_LOCATION=/custom/path/immich/immich_files
+ THUMB_LOCATION=/custom/path/immich/thumbs
+ ENCODED_VIDEO_LOCATION=/custom/path/immich/encoded-video
+ PROFILE_LOCATION=/custom/path/immich/profile
+ BACKUP_LOCATION=/custom/path/immich/backups
...
```

After defining the locations of these files, we will edit the `docker-compose.yml` file accordingly and add the new variables to the `immich-server` container. These paths are where the mount attaches inside of the container, so don't change those.

```diff title="docker-compose.yml"
services:
  immich-server:
      volumes:
      - ${UPLOAD_LOCATION}:/usr/src/app/upload
+     - ${THUMB_LOCATION}:/usr/src/app/upload/thumbs
+     - ${ENCODED_VIDEO_LOCATION}:/usr/src/app/upload/encoded-video
+     - ${PROFILE_LOCATION}:/usr/src/app/upload/profile
+     - ${BACKUP_LOCATION}:/usr/src/app/upload/backups
      - /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro
```

After making this change, you have to move the files over to the new folders to make sure Immich can find everything it needs. If you haven't uploaded anything important yet, you can also reset Immich entirely by deleting the database folder.
Then restart Immich to register the changes:

```
docker compose up -d
```

:::note
Because of the underlying properties of docker bind mounts, it is not recommended to mount the `upload/` and `library/` folders as separate bind mounts if they are on the same device.
For this reason, we mount the HDD or the network storage (NAS) to `/usr/src/app/upload` and then mount the folders we want to access under that folder.

The `thumbs/` folder contains both the small thumbnails displayed in the timeline and the larger previews shown when clicking into an image. These cannot be separated.

The storage metrics of the Immich server will track available storage at `UPLOAD_LOCATION`, so the administrator must set up some sort of monitoring to ensure the storage does not run out of space. The `profile/` folder is much smaller, usually less than 1 MB.
:::

Commit message:

add some minor documentation fo the `custom-locations` guide

docs/docs/guides/custom-locations.md, after:

# Files Custom Locations

This guide explains how to store generated and raw files with docker's volume mount in different locations.

:::caution Backup
It is important to remember to update the backup settings after following the guide to back up the new backup paths if using automatic backup tools, especially `profile/`.
:::

In our `.env` file, we will define the paths we want to use. Note that you don't have to define all of these: UPLOAD_LOCATION will be the base folder that files are stored in by default, with the other paths acting as overrides.

```diff title=".env"
# You can find documentation for all the supported environment variables [here](/docs/install/environment-variables)

# Custom location where your uploaded, thumbnails, and transcoded video files are stored
- UPLOAD_LOCATION=./library
+ UPLOAD_LOCATION=/custom/path/immich/immich_files
+ THUMB_LOCATION=/custom/path/immich/thumbs
+ THUMB_SMALL_LOCATION=/custom/path/immich/small-thumbnails
+ THUMB_PEOPLE_LOCATION=/custom/path/immich/people-thumbnails
+ ENCODED_VIDEO_LOCATION=/custom/path/immich/encoded-video
+ PROFILE_LOCATION=/custom/path/immich/profile
+ BACKUP_LOCATION=/custom/path/immich/backups
...
```

After defining the locations of these files, we will edit the `docker-compose.yml` file accordingly and add the new variables to the `immich-server` container. These paths are where the mount attaches inside of the container, so don't change those.

```diff title="docker-compose.yml"
services:
  immich-server:
      volumes:
      - ${UPLOAD_LOCATION}:/usr/src/app/upload
+     - ${THUMB_LOCATION}:/usr/src/app/upload/thumbs
+     - ${THUMB_SMALL_LOCATION}:/usr/src/app/upload/thumbs/thumbnails
+     - ${THUMB_PEOPLE_LOCATION}:/usr/src/app/upload/thumbs/people
+     - ${ENCODED_VIDEO_LOCATION}:/usr/src/app/upload/encoded-video
+     - ${PROFILE_LOCATION}:/usr/src/app/upload/profile
+     - ${BACKUP_LOCATION}:/usr/src/app/upload/backups
      - /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro
```

After making this change, you have to move the files over to the new folders to make sure Immich can find everything it needs. If you haven't uploaded anything important yet, you can also reset Immich entirely by deleting the database folder.
Then restart Immich to register the changes:

```
docker compose up -d
```

:::note
Because of the underlying properties of docker bind mounts, it is not recommended to mount the `upload/` and `library/` folders as separate bind mounts if they are on the same device.
For this reason, we mount the HDD or the network storage (NAS) to `/usr/src/app/upload` and then mount the folders we want to access under that folder.

Normally, the `thumbs/` folder contains all thumbnails such as the small thumbnails displayed in the timeline and the larger previews shown when clicking into an image.
You can also specify the location of the `thumbs/thumbnails` and `thumbs/people` folders. For example, you could put these folders on a small SSD for snappy loading while the other assets (like the larger previews) can be on a bigger HDD.

The storage metrics of the Immich server will track available storage at `UPLOAD_LOCATION`, so the administrator must set up some sort of monitoring to ensure the storage does not run out of space. The `profile/` folder is much smaller, usually less than 1 MB.
:::
