docs/docs/guides/template-backup-script.md, before:

# Backup Script

[Borg](https://www.borgbackup.org/) is a feature-rich deduplicating archiving software with built-in versioning. We provide a template bash script that can be run daily/weekly as a [cron](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/cron) job to back up your files and database. We encourage you to read the quick-start guide for Borg before running this script.

This script assumes you have a second hard drive connected to your server for on-site backup and ssh access to a remote machine for your third off-site copy. [BorgBase](https://www.borgbase.com/) is an alternative option for off-site backups with a competitive pricing structure. You may choose to skip off-site backups entirely by removing the relevant lines from the template script.

The database is saved to your Immich upload folder in the `database-backup` subdirectory. The database is then backed up and versioned with your assets by Borg. This ensures that the database backup is in sync with your assets in every snapshot.

:::info
This script makes backups of your database along with your photo/video library. This is redundant with the [automatic database backup tool](https://immich.app/docs/administration/backup-and-restore#automatic-database-backups) built into Immich. Using this script to backup your database has two advantages over the built-in backup tool:

- This script uses storage more efficiently by versioning your backups instead of making multiple copies.
- The database backups are performed at the same time as the library backup, ensuring that the backups of your database and the library are always in sync.

If you are using this script, it is therefore safe to turn off the built-in automatic database backups from your admin panel to save storage space.
:::

### Prerequisites

- Borg needs to be installed on your server as well as the remote machine. You can find instructions to install Borg [here](https://borgbackup.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html).
- (Optional) To run this script as a non-root user, you should [add your username to the docker group](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/).
- To run this script non-interactively, set up [passwordless ssh](https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/passwordless-ssh) to your remote machine from your server. If you skipped the previous step, make sure this step is done from your root account.

To initialize the borg repository, run the following commands once.

```bash title='Borg set-up'
UPLOAD_LOCATION="/path/to/immich/directory"       # Immich database location, as set in your .env file
BACKUP_PATH="/path/to/local/backup/directory"

mkdir "$UPLOAD_LOCATION/database-backup"
borg init --encryption=none "$BACKUP_PATH/immich-borg"

## Remote set up
REMOTE_HOST="remote_host@IP"
REMOTE_BACKUP_PATH="/path/to/remote/backup/directory"

borg init --encryption=none "$REMOTE_HOST:$REMOTE_BACKUP_PATH/immich-borg"
```

Edit the following script as necessary and add it to your crontab. Note that this script assumes there are no `:`, `@`, or `"` characters in your paths. If these characters exist, you will need to escape and/or rename the paths.

```bash title='Borg backup template'
#!/bin/sh

# Paths
UPLOAD_LOCATION="/path/to/immich/directory"
BACKUP_PATH="/path/to/local/backup/directory"
REMOTE_HOST="remote_host@IP"
REMOTE_BACKUP_PATH="/path/to/remote/backup/directory"


### Local

# Backup Immich database
docker exec -t immich_postgres pg_dumpall --clean --if-exists --username=postgres > "$UPLOAD_LOCATION"/database-backup/immich-database.sql
# For deduplicating backup programs such as Borg or Restic, compressing the content can increase backup size by making it harder to deduplicate. If you are using a different program or still prefer to compress, you can use the following command instead:
# docker exec -t immich_postgres pg_dumpall --clean --if-exists --username=postgres | /usr/bin/gzip --rsyncable > "$UPLOAD_LOCATION"/database-backup/immich-database.sql.gz

### Append to local Borg repository
borg create "$BACKUP_PATH/immich-borg::{now}" "$UPLOAD_LOCATION" --exclude "$UPLOAD_LOCATION"/thumbs/ --exclude "$UPLOAD_LOCATION"/encoded-video/
borg prune --keep-weekly=4 --keep-monthly=3 "$BACKUP_PATH"/immich-borg
borg compact "$BACKUP_PATH"/immich-borg


### Append to remote Borg repository
borg create "$REMOTE_HOST:$REMOTE_BACKUP_PATH/immich-borg::{now}" "$UPLOAD_LOCATION" --exclude "$UPLOAD_LOCATION"/thumbs/ --exclude "$UPLOAD_LOCATION"/encoded-video/
borg prune --keep-weekly=4 --keep-monthly=3 "$REMOTE_HOST:$REMOTE_BACKUP_PATH"/immich-borg
borg compact "$REMOTE_HOST:$REMOTE_BACKUP_PATH"/immich-borg
```

### Restoring

To restore from a backup, use the `borg mount` command.

```bash title='Restore from local backup'
BACKUP_PATH="/path/to/local/backup/directory"
mkdir /tmp/immich-mountpoint
borg mount "$BACKUP_PATH"/immich-borg /tmp/immich-mountpoint
cd /tmp/immich-mountpoint
```

```bash title='Restore from remote backup'
REMOTE_HOST="remote_host@IP"
REMOTE_BACKUP_PATH="/path/to/remote/backup/directory"
mkdir /tmp/immich-mountpoint
borg mount "$REMOTE_HOST:$REMOTE_BACKUP_PATH"/immich-borg /tmp/immich-mountpoint
cd /tmp/immich-mountpoint
```

You can find available snapshots in separate sub-directories at `/tmp/immich-mountpoint`. Restore the files you need, and unmount the Borg repository using `borg umount /tmp/immich-mountpoint`

Commit message:

Add a note about Borg's file cache in containers
Borg keeps its file cache in ~/.cache/borg/ which is usually not
persistent in containerized environments, leading to increasingly
slow backups as libraries grow.

Since this fact is not currently well covered in Borg's own
documentation, add a note here.

docs/docs/guides/template-backup-script.md, after:

# Backup Script

[Borg](https://www.borgbackup.org/) is a feature-rich deduplicating archiving software with built-in versioning. We provide a template bash script that can be run daily/weekly as a [cron](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/cron) job to back up your files and database. We encourage you to read the quick-start guide for Borg before running this script.

This script assumes you have a second hard drive connected to your server for on-site backup and ssh access to a remote machine for your third off-site copy. [BorgBase](https://www.borgbase.com/) is an alternative option for off-site backups with a competitive pricing structure. You may choose to skip off-site backups entirely by removing the relevant lines from the template script.

The database is saved to your Immich upload folder in the `database-backup` subdirectory. The database is then backed up and versioned with your assets by Borg. This ensures that the database backup is in sync with your assets in every snapshot.

:::info
This script makes backups of your database along with your photo/video library. This is redundant with the [automatic database backup tool](https://immich.app/docs/administration/backup-and-restore#automatic-database-backups) built into Immich. Using this script to backup your database has two advantages over the built-in backup tool:

- This script uses storage more efficiently by versioning your backups instead of making multiple copies.
- The database backups are performed at the same time as the library backup, ensuring that the backups of your database and the library are always in sync.

If you are using this script, it is therefore safe to turn off the built-in automatic database backups from your admin panel to save storage space.
:::

### Prerequisites

- Borg needs to be installed on your server as well as the remote machine. You can find instructions to install Borg [here](https://borgbackup.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html).
- (Optional) To run this script as a non-root user, you should [add your username to the docker group](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/).
- To run this script non-interactively, set up [passwordless ssh](https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/passwordless-ssh) to your remote machine from your server. If you skipped the previous step, make sure this step is done from your root account.

To initialize the borg repository, run the following commands once.

```bash title='Borg set-up'
UPLOAD_LOCATION="/path/to/immich/directory"       # Immich database location, as set in your .env file
BACKUP_PATH="/path/to/local/backup/directory"

mkdir "$UPLOAD_LOCATION/database-backup"
borg init --encryption=none "$BACKUP_PATH/immich-borg"

## Remote set up
REMOTE_HOST="remote_host@IP"
REMOTE_BACKUP_PATH="/path/to/remote/backup/directory"

borg init --encryption=none "$REMOTE_HOST:$REMOTE_BACKUP_PATH/immich-borg"
```

Edit the following script as necessary and add it to your crontab. Note that this script assumes there are no `:`, `@`, or `"` characters in your paths. If these characters exist, you will need to escape and/or rename the paths.

```bash title='Borg backup template'
#!/bin/sh

# Paths
UPLOAD_LOCATION="/path/to/immich/directory"
BACKUP_PATH="/path/to/local/backup/directory"
REMOTE_HOST="remote_host@IP"
REMOTE_BACKUP_PATH="/path/to/remote/backup/directory"


### Local

# Backup Immich database
docker exec -t immich_postgres pg_dumpall --clean --if-exists --username=postgres > "$UPLOAD_LOCATION"/database-backup/immich-database.sql
# For deduplicating backup programs such as Borg or Restic, compressing the content can increase backup size by making it harder to deduplicate. If you are using a different program or still prefer to compress, you can use the following command instead:
# docker exec -t immich_postgres pg_dumpall --clean --if-exists --username=postgres | /usr/bin/gzip --rsyncable > "$UPLOAD_LOCATION"/database-backup/immich-database.sql.gz

### Append to local Borg repository
borg create --list --filter=AME "$BACKUP_PATH/immich-borg::{now}" "$UPLOAD_LOCATION" --exclude "$UPLOAD_LOCATION"/thumbs/ --exclude "$UPLOAD_LOCATION"/encoded-video/
borg prune --keep-weekly=4 --keep-monthly=3 "$BACKUP_PATH"/immich-borg
borg compact "$BACKUP_PATH"/immich-borg


### Append to remote Borg repository
borg create --list --filter=AME "$REMOTE_HOST:$REMOTE_BACKUP_PATH/immich-borg::{now}" "$UPLOAD_LOCATION" --exclude "$UPLOAD_LOCATION"/thumbs/ --exclude "$UPLOAD_LOCATION"/encoded-video/
borg prune --keep-weekly=4 --keep-monthly=3 "$REMOTE_HOST:$REMOTE_BACKUP_PATH"/immich-borg
borg compact "$REMOTE_HOST:$REMOTE_BACKUP_PATH"/immich-borg
```

### Restoring

To restore from a backup, use the `borg mount` command.

```bash title='Restore from local backup'
BACKUP_PATH="/path/to/local/backup/directory"
mkdir /tmp/immich-mountpoint
borg mount "$BACKUP_PATH"/immich-borg /tmp/immich-mountpoint
cd /tmp/immich-mountpoint
```

```bash title='Restore from remote backup'
REMOTE_HOST="remote_host@IP"
REMOTE_BACKUP_PATH="/path/to/remote/backup/directory"
mkdir /tmp/immich-mountpoint
borg mount "$REMOTE_HOST:$REMOTE_BACKUP_PATH"/immich-borg /tmp/immich-mountpoint
cd /tmp/immich-mountpoint
```

You can find available snapshots in separate sub-directories at `/tmp/immich-mountpoint`. Restore the files you need, and unmount the Borg repository using `borg umount /tmp/immich-mountpoint`

:::info
Borg's backups are differential, backing up only files that were added or modified since the last backup, ensuring speedy backups even on huge image libraries.
For this to work, Borg keeps a file cache at `~/.cache/borg/`. Since this is in the user's home directory, care should be taken when running in a containerized environment where the home directories are not persistent by default and the file caches are lost between each backup run.

If `borg create` always shows all files prefixed with "A" (added/new), check the file cache.

When running Borg from a container, ensure `~/.cache/borg/` is mounted on a persistent volume.`
:::
